README.md, before:

#  A  fuzz tester for gRPC and Protocol Buffers

Currently, the functionality is in two separate functions:

- Purely random messages
  - Exported as a function from _randomProtoMessage.js_
- Deterministic mutations of an existing message
  - Exported as a function from _mutateProtoMessage.js_

Either should produce a valid object within your protobuf message definition.

## Examples

*myProtoFile.proto*
```
syntax = "proto3";

message SomeMessageType {
  message SubMessage {
	bool x = 1;
  }

  uint32          alice   = 1;
  repeated string bob     = 2;
  SubMessage      charlie = 3;  
}
```

*randomMessageExample.js*
```js
var randomProtoMessage = require("./randomProtoMessage"); 
var grpc = require("grpc");

var myProtos = grpc.load("myProtoFile.proto");

var randomMessage = randomProtoMessage(myProtos.SomeMessageType);
console.log(JSON.stringify(randomMessage));
```

*output*
```js
{
	alice: 2345612,
	bob: ["sunday", "%%£%^%%^&%$&", "\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"],
	charlie: {
		x: false
	}
}
```

*mutatedMessageExample.js*
```js
var mutateProtoMessage = require("./randomProtoMessage"); 
var grpc = require("grpc");

var myProtos = grpc.load("myProtoFile.proto");

var initialMessage = {
	alice: 3,
	bob: ["john", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

var mutations = mutateProtoMessage(myProtos.SomeMessageType, initialMessage);
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[0]));
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[2]));
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[10]));
```
   
*output*
```js
{}

{
	alice: -1,
	bob: ["john", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

{
	alice: 3,
	bob: ["john\n\n\n", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

```

Commit message:

Factor out the mutators into individual files

README.md, after:

#  A fuzz tester for gRPC and proto3

Currently, the functionality is in two separate functions:

- Purely random messages
  - Exported as a function from _randomProtoMessage.js_
- Deterministic mutations of an existing message
  - Exported as a function from _mutateProtoMessage.js_

Either should produce a valid object within your protobuf message definition.

## Examples

*myProtoFile.proto*
```
syntax = "proto3";

message SomeMessageType {
  message SubMessage {
	bool x = 1;
  }

  uint32          alice   = 1;
  repeated string bob     = 2;
  SubMessage      charlie = 3;  
}
```

*randomMessageExample.js*
```js
var randomProtoMessage = require("./randomProtoMessage"); 
var grpc = require("grpc");

var myProtos = grpc.load("myProtoFile.proto");

var randomMessage = randomProtoMessage(myProtos.SomeMessageType);
console.log(JSON.stringify(randomMessage));
```

*output*
```js
{
	alice: 2345612,
	bob: ["sunday", "%%£%^%%^&%$&", "\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"],
	charlie: {
		x: false
	}
}
```

*mutatedMessageExample.js*
```js
var mutateProtoMessage = require("./randomProtoMessage"); 
var grpc = require("grpc");

var myProtos = grpc.load("myProtoFile.proto");

var initialMessage = {
	alice: 3,
	bob: ["john", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

var mutations = mutateProtoMessage(myProtos.SomeMessageType, initialMessage);
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[0]));
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[2]));
console.log(JSON.stringify(mutations[10]));
```
   
*output*
```js
{}

{
	alice: -1,
	bob: ["john", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

{
	alice: 3,
	bob: ["john\n\n\n", "paul"],
	charlie: {
		x: true	
	}
}

```

## Mutation strategy
If you come up with too much random data, you probably won't get very deep into your service.
The deterministic mutators will do either one or two subtle (or unsubtle) changes to your input. 
The idea is that you will get past the obvious error checks and penetrate deeper into the code. 

Here's a few articles I read:

https://www.mwrinfosecurity.com/our-thinking/15-minute-guide-to-fuzzing/
https://lcamtuf.blogspot.co.uk/2014/08/binary-fuzzing-strategies-what-works.html

## Todo
- Finish the implementation of mutators for all protobuf types 
- Non-deterministic mutations
- Make it easier to specify a database of inputs or input mutators
- Automatically throw messages at a running service for a while, and record the message that breaks it
